Speaker1:
95 versus 100%.
And he tells the story of moving to around Santa Monica and
his friends getting him into biking on the bike path. So up
and down the boardwalk right on the water. And so, being a
type-A personalities, uh, type-A personality, he would get a
stopwatch. He'd start it and he'd like huff and puff and
race as hard as he could, all the way down to wherever and
he would time himself. And every day, no matter how hard he
did it, 43 minutes, 43 minutes, just wouldn't improve, 43
minutes. And this thing that should have been enjoyable
became painful in his mind. He started to avoid it. He'd be
like, "Ah, I have other things to do. No, instead of bike
riding, I'll do this other thing." And, uh, he realized at
one point, "This is really pathetic and this is really bad,
that something that should be enjoyable I'm avoiding because
I've made it so painful so why don't I just go for a bike
ride and enjoy it?" So he goes for a bike ride and it's just
a leisurely cruise. He's chilling. He's riding around and,
uh, he's seeing dolphins in the water, he's standing up,
he's looking around, noticing things he hadn't noticed
before. At one point -- this is Derek -- he goes, "At one
point, I looked up in the sky and there was a pelican and I
said, wow, pelican and it shit in my mouth!" (audience
laughs) And I was like, "Ahhh!" He's like, "It was the best
bike ride ever!" I was like, "Okay." So, he's having a great
time, uh, the pelican shit in the mouth notwithstanding. And
he gets back and he looks at his watch and it was, I think
it was 45 minutes and he's like, "Wait, what?" He's like,
"So all that huffing and puffing, all that, like sweating,
like leg cramps and pain was for an extra 2 minutes off the
clock?
That's outrageous." So he started applying that to his
entire life. He said, "When I start to get really stressed
out, I just stop. Because I realize, 95% is enough for
getting almost all of the results that I want and making it
sustainable."
Tony Kaizen:
95% is good enough.
Now I don't know about you, but when I listen to this, I can
see so many similarities between this story and the stories
of all of our lives. Anything we want to achieve in life,
any new skill we want to learn or goal we want to
accomplish. Sometimes we have the habit of making it like,
uh, a job or a task to be completed instead of just this
thing that we enjoy doing, you know.
Me for example, something almost identical happened --really
the same exact thing happened-- with Life in English and the
podcast and everything, you know? The past couple of months
I just found myself getting to this point where it really
felt like a job for the first time, I guess ever.
I can't remember ever thinking before, this feels like a job
that needs to be done as opposed to this is just what I
enjoy doing, so I'm gonna do it. And that's one of the
dangers I think of trying to take something you're
passionate about or something you enjoy and turning it into
a way to make money because then it... it stops being a
hobby and it becomes something like a business to where
you're doing this because you expect or hope or plan to
receive money for it. And so with me, I started the Life in
English membership.
I was trying to think of how to build a membership business
around Life in English and all the content that I'm
producing because that's really like my zone of genius is
content creation, creative activities, um, communication in
general. Not to say I'm a communication genius, but that's
what comes naturally. That's where I don't need any help. I
don't need any instruction. I just work intuitively and shit
just happens. That's what I mean when I say that's my zone
of genius. And so...
with the podcast, like the whole time before I started the
membership, it really was, I just like doing the shit. I
don't know. I got a lot to say, man, and on a podcast I can
just express myself without worrying about boring the other
person or giving them a chance to speak or, you know, being
worried about the words I choose and things like that
because I'm just talking to myself. I'm just in this room as
we speak or as I speak. I'm in this room just talking to a
microphone. And I just really enjoyed it. But then, you
know, it got to this point, leaving my personal life out of
it, I just got to this point in my life where it's like,
okay, I need to basically double down on something and
decide how am I going to make a living? How am I going to,
like, support myself, what kind of work am I gonna do? What
type of work can I do? What type of work would I enjoy? And
then just after looking at everything, Life in English was
the obvious answer. I'm gonna try and turn this into a legit
revenue stream. Just get paid to do something that not only
I enjoy, but thousands of people actually find valuable and
benefit from. That's Life in English. So, I started the
membership thing thinking, "Damn, I've got tens of thousands
of people following me on this platform, millions on that
one, hundreds on that one." If, you know, 10% of all the
people who know and follow what I do just gave me 5 bucks a
month, like, we could scale this into a legit education
company where I'm hiring multiple employees to help me
produce more, you know, invest and execute on more ideas and
things of that nature. But obviously, you know, nobody
really gives a shit about me or Life in English or what I'm
trying to accomplish so it didn't really work that way. But
that's not the point. The point is, ever since I started
trying to turn it into some kind of membership business
where we're able to grow because of the membership revenue
we receive, slowly but surely at just... the stress level
started to increase and the way I thought about all the
content I was producing started to increase. I started
making really, really dumb, shortsighted decisions because I
was thinking about money or short-term gains and not about
the...the content, the...the...the substance of it all and
the long-term vision. I started to neglect that. And it just
got to this point where I...I was producing content just
because I felt like I had to. The only way people are gonna
know about me and what I'm doing and then, you know, begin
to support and join the community is if I'm constantly
putting out content, constantly putting out things for
people to consume and you kind of end up on like this
hamster wheel where you're just running, running, running,
running, running, but you never get to the fucking finish
line. It just never stops. And the minute you stop putting
in effort, the wheel stops turning, you see what I'm saying?
So I just put this --voluntarily put this-- pressure on
myself, like I need to be putting out content. An episode
every week, three or four videos every day. Blog posts and a
newsletter and this and that, I need to, you know, conquer
the world fucking yesterday. Because I have all these dreams
and aspirations and visions and things I would like to do
with this project. But, you know, I'm only one person, you
know, you can only do so much, especially when it's not your
full time job. It's like a side project you're trying to
turn into a full time job. So with all that being said, my
point is, I got to this...this...this place where even
sitting down to write a podcast episode was stressful.
Because I'm...I'm considering so many other things besides
just writing the fucking episode or recording it. I'm
thinking about branding and marketing and the subject matter
and, you know, even when I sit down and try to write and
just focus on the topic at hand, I'm thinking about all this
other business stuff. I'm thinking about the community and
my students and my personal life and fucking money and
budgeting and future plans and, you know, these multiple
projects I'm trying to work on and finish. It just became
way too much for one person to manage, you know? I mean,
you're trying to do a bunch of things and you're thinking
about a bunch of things at the same time, you end up doing
nothing, which just adds to the stress. And you're like,
"No, fuck, I need to focus and get this done bah, bah, bah."
And then you try to sit down and get it done and you can't
focus, you can't relax and just enjoy the shit, you know?
And that's when I really had to stop and... and take ten
steps back. And really analyze like what am...what am I
doing? What are my goals here? Why am I doing this? What
exactly am I trying to achieve? And how is my current method
helping me achieve those things or keeping me from achieving
those things? I really had to stop and consider that. And
that's why recently I made those changes to Life in English,
to the community and everything, because I just had to set
it up in a way where it's more like back to the way it used
to be. Where I'm just producing the stuff I want to produce
or that I know my audience --you in this case-- would like
to hear or learn about or you might be interested in and
that kind of thing, and just let go of this false idea that
I just constantly need to be producing, I constantly have to
be making things or like doing shit, especially the shit
that doesn't really make a difference in the project or your
life or my life at all, you know? I had to kind of just slow
down and learn how to enjoy the process again. Which is why
now I've kind of taken that pressure off myself and I don't
feel the need to put out an episode every week or be on
social media every day -that shit is not healthy, first of
all. It's not sustainable, second of all. And I just don't
fucking like it, most of all,(laughs) you know what I mean?
So it's just like, what... what I'm trying to...the message
I'm trying to get across to you is no matter what it is in
life, you know, you have to...let me think about how to say
this. If you're gonna try to work for yourself, if you're
gonna try to make a living doing something that's
unconventional or build a business around your passions and
things like that, you have to set it up in a way that
enables you to continue enjoying it even after it becomes a
business and you have all these other responsibilities
otherwise it's not... it's not gonna be sustainable, you
know? You might get the business part perfect, but then
your...your... the passion part suffers. Or if you only
focus on the passion, then the business part suffers. So
it's really important to find a balance and create a
structure that works for the...the grand vision you have for
not only that project or career, but your life in general,
your daily experience, you know what I mean? And it's a
weird balancing act that you have to find when you're trying
to mix passion with business, you know? Art and money. It's
a weird balance you got to find, man, to where you can
successfully execute on both without getting burnt out,
without feeling like your business is suffering, or the art
or the passion side is suffering. It takes time and you got
to bump your head on a lot of walls and fucking make tons of
mistakes. I mean, the number of mistakes I've made in the
last year, man, (sighs) I probably...that...that deserves
its own episode, you know what I mean? I won't even get into
it now. But the point is, I've learned so much this past
year since I really launched the Life in English project
with the intention of making enough money to then reinvest
in the project and make it grow. This past year has been
nothing but countless learning experiences. But getting back
to the point of the clip that I played at the beginning and
what I started talking about, I just had to learn to enjoy
the process, man. And it's funny because the episode "Five
Traits of a Great Communicator" that I put out recently,
that was the first episode in a long time where I said, "I
don't give a fuck about anything else except writing the
episode." I don't care how long it takes. I don't care how
long the episode ends up being. I don't give a fuck about
nothing but the subject at hand and me writing down what I
think and getting my message across to you -the listener.
And just like in the story from the clip that I played at
the beginning of this episode, when I finished that episode,
I realized, "Damn, the first paragraph, it took me four or
five days to write." Because I'd sit down I'm like, I
couldn't focus on the subject. I couldn't focus on that
episode. I was thinking about so much other shit. And then,
the following week, when I decided I'm just gonna enjoy it
and write the episodes the way I used to, I'm not gonna
think about anything but the episode and what I want to say.
Bro, the last four, (laughs) the last four paragraphs or
chapters or parts of that episode- I did in the same day. I
wrote all of it in one sitting. Took me like an hour at
most. So it's just so funny how like I identify completely
with the story in this episode to where you...where you just
take the stress off yourself and just enjoy the shit. Just
enjoy the shit. Enjoy the process.
Just go through it, step by step without worrying about
anything else. Oftentimes you realized not only did you
enjoy it more, but you did it better. And quicker.
You know, all that shit you were stressing about was
imaginary you put on yourself, bro. So I think there are
times when you need to go hard. It's not about enjoying
yourself per se. It's more about getting shit done,
especially when money is involved or people are depending on
you. You have to execute. And that's something I'm learning
day by day is how to go from creative ideas to realistic
execution, because otherwise you have no fucking business.
You have no...you know what I mean? You need both. But. But.
There's this... there's a phrase that we have in English,
which is "Work hard, play hard." And I think sometimes it's
important to remember you should be playing just as hard as
you work. So if this activity is meant to allow you or help
you enjoy yourself, fucking enjoy yourself, bruh. The
stress, the problems, the misunderstandings, the confusion,
the doubts, all that shit will be there when you finish,
trust me. But if it's time to enjoy yourself or just do this
thing, just focus on doing the thing. Time is not real. I'd
let it go, bruh. Don't worry about it. Just fucking enjoy
the process, man. And I guess for you, something more
relevant would be like learning English, for a lot of
people, I'm sure they could relate. Or let me say that
differently. I'm sure a lot of people could relate to this
story in terms of learning any language, but in this case,
English, you know, because you put so much pressure on
yourself, "I got to get this job, change careers, I want to
beat the competition. I want to be the most qualified. I
have to ..." "I need to learn 30 days, 60 days, 90 days. I
must improve my English. I must learn." And all that time
you spend just saying that shit, you could be actually just
improving your English. But since you're not and you're just
focused on "I have to do, I have to do, I'm obligated." Then
it becomes this task, this fucking chore, this job that must
be done instead of something that I just want to do. Any
time you feel obligated to do something that you don't feel
you want to do, you're gonna do it with less passion, less
energy, you know?
You're not gonna try as hard. It's just gonna be a much more
miserable experience for you. And that's what happens to a
lot of people. It...It becomes this... this dark cloud just
hanging over their heads all the time and they know they
need to get it done but, "Ah, you know, tomorrow." or "I
don't have anyone to speak with." or "It's too hard." "I'm
not smart enough." "I'll try again next month." You know? "I
don't need it right now." All this bullshit that we tell
ourselves to convince ourselves that this important thing we
know needs to be done could probably wait. I'm sure we've
all done it at some point in life. And what I find is or
excuse me, what I've found is that the people who just enjoy
the shit, just show up in the community and just talk to
people who ask their questions, who try to live their lives
in English and just take it day by day, they have so much
more fun. They make so much more progress. You know what I
mean? It's weird.
It's almost like... It's almost like when you stop caring,
that's when shit starts to work for you, you know what I
mean? When you stop putting so much pressure on yourself
and...and building it up to be this grand, you know,
overwhelming thing, and you just say, "Oh, fuck it, I'm just
going to do it. Whatever happens, happens." Then shit starts
to work for you. It's weird. It's really weird. So the
message I'm trying to get across to you, after all this,
man, is no matter what it is in life, just like the men in
this story, I encourage you to learn how to just enjoy the
process, man. Enjoy the process.
Let go of these... these imaginary ideas, these false ideas
that you have that shit has to be done by a certain day, at
a certain time and a certain way. In some cases that's true.
But in many cases, man, especially when acquiring skills or
just, you know, doing fun activities, trying to get better
at things like bro, by putting that pressure on yourself,
you're just making it harder on yourself and there's no
reason to do that, you know? So, if you take away anything
from the story at the beginning of this episode or anything
I've said is no matter what it is in life, man, just at
least try to remember to enjoy the process, because all we
have is the present moment. All we have is right now. And if
you can't enjoy what's happening right now, how the fuck are
you gonna enjoy, you know, the end result? How are you even
gonna get there? Even if you get there one day, the whole
journey, all you're gonna remember is misery and difficulty
and fucking sadness and pain and stress. Why...you know? I'm
just saying there's no reason to put extra stress on
yourself. Stress is natural. I think it's normal. I think
it's healthy. It's how you know that you're outside of your
comfort zone. And that's where real growth happens. But
there's no reason to put more pressure on yourself than what
is absolutely necessary. I guess that's what I'm trying to
say. And by just enjoying the process, yeah, it's hard, it's
challenging, it's gonna take a while but at least I'm
enjoying myself. And when you enjoy yourself, you do it
better with more passion, more happiness, which typically
brings better results, right? Super simple stuff that I
think we just forget sometimes because we're lost in the
hustle and bustle of our daily lives and we have these goals
and we want to achieve them. And then we go online and we
see people who appear to be achieving their goals. And it's
like, "Fuck, I got to go harder, I got to try harder, I got
to do this and that." And again, sometimes it's true but you
got to find that balance, man. Got to find that balance. So
anyway, I just wanted to put that on your mind today. Leave
you with something to think about. If you'd like, do not
hesitate to start a conversation on Discord and let me know
what you think about it, man. But this is Kaizen after Dark.
I am your host, Tony Kaizen, and I'll talk to you soon.
Peace!